docs/FAQ.md, before:

# Frequently asked questions

### Why does my branch not move to the new commit after `jj new/commit`?

If you're familiar with Git, you might expect the current branch to move forward
when you commit. However, Jujutsu does not have a concept of a "current branch".

To move branches, use `jj branch set`.

### I made a commit and `jj git push --all` says "Nothing changed" instead of pushing it. What do I do?

`jj git push --all` pushes all _branches_, not all revisions. You have two
options:

* Using `jj git push --change` will automatically create a branch and push it.
* Using `jj branch` commands to create or move a branch to either the commit
  you want to push or a descendant on it. Unlike Git, Jujutsu doesn't do this
  automatically (see previous question).

### Where is my commit, why is it not visible in `jj log`?

Is your commit visible with `jj log -r 'all()'`?

If yes, you should be aware that `jj log` only shows the revisions matching
`revsets.log` by default. You can change it as described in [config] to show
more revisions.

If not, the revision may have been abandoned (e.g. because you
used `jj abandon`, or because it's an obsolete version that's been rewritten
with `jj rebase`, `jj describe`, etc). In that case, `jj log -r commit_id`
should show the revision as "hidden". `jj new commit_id` should make the
revision visible again.

See [revsets] and [templates] for further guidance.

### Can I prevent Jujutsu from recording my unfinished work? I'm not ready to commit it.

Jujutsu automatically records new files in the current working-copy commit and
doesn't provide a way to prevent that.

However, you can easily record intermediate drafts of your work. If you think
you might want to go back to the current state of the working-copy commit,
simply use `jj new`. There's no need for the commit to be "finished" or even
have a description.

Then future edits will go into a new working-copy commit on top of the now
former working-copy commit. Whenever you are happy with another set of edits,
use `jj squash` to amend the previous commit.

For more options see the next question.

### Can I add a portion of the edits I made to a file, similarly to `git add -p` or `hg commit -i`?

At the moment the best options to partially add a file are: `jj split`,
`jj amend -i` and `jj move -i`.

### Is there something like `git rebase --interactive` or `hg histedit`?

Not yet, you can check [this issue] for updates.

To reorder commits, it is for now recommended to rebase commits individually,
which may require multiple invocations of `jj rebase -r` or `jj rebase -s`.

To squash or split commits, use `jj squash` and `jj split`.

### How can I keep my scratch files in the repository?

You can keep your notes and other scratch files in the repository, if you add
a wildcard pattern to either the repo's `gitignore` or your global `gitignore`.
Something like `*.scratch` or `*.scratchpad` should do, after that rename the
files you want to keep around to match the pattern.

If `$EDITOR` integration is important, something like `scratchpad.*` may be more
helpful, as you can keep the filename extension intact (it
matches `scratchpad.md`, `scratchpad.rs` and more).

You can find more details on `gitignore` files [here][gitignore].

### How can I keep local changes around, but not use them for Pull Requests?

In general, you should separate out the changes to their own commit (using
e.g. `jj split`). After that, one possible workflow is to rebase your pending
PRs on top of the commit with the local changes. Then, just before pushing to a
remote, use `jj rebase -s child_of_commit_with_local_changes -d main` to move
the PRs back on top of `main`.

If you have several PRs, you can
try `jj rebase -s all:commit_with_local_changes+ -d main`
(note the `+`) to move them all at once.

An alternative workflow would be to rebase the commit with local changes on
top of the PR you're working on and then do `jj new commit_with_local_changes`.
You'll then need to use `jj new --before` to create new commits
and `jj move --to`
to move new changes into the correct commits.

[config]: ./config.md

[gitignore]: https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore

[revsets]: ./revsets.md

[templates]: ./templates.md

[this issue]: https://github.com/martinvonz/jj/issues/1531

Commit message:

Add FAQ about move-edit conflicts

docs/FAQ.md, after:

# Frequently asked questions

### Why does my branch not move to the new commit after `jj new/commit`?

If you're familiar with Git, you might expect the current branch to move forward
when you commit. However, Jujutsu does not have a concept of a "current branch".

To move branches, use `jj branch set`.

### I made a commit and `jj git push --all` says "Nothing changed" instead of pushing it. What do I do?

`jj git push --all` pushes all _branches_, not all revisions. You have two
options:

* Using `jj git push --change` will automatically create a branch and push it.
* Using `jj branch` commands to create or move a branch to either the commit
  you want to push or a descendant on it. Unlike Git, Jujutsu doesn't do this
  automatically (see previous question).

### Where is my commit, why is it not visible in `jj log`?

Is your commit visible with `jj log -r 'all()'`?

If yes, you should be aware that `jj log` only shows the revisions matching
`revsets.log` by default. You can change it as described in [config] to show
more revisions.

If not, the revision may have been abandoned (e.g. because you
used `jj abandon`, or because it's an obsolete version that's been rewritten
with `jj rebase`, `jj describe`, etc). In that case, `jj log -r commit_id`
should show the revision as "hidden". `jj new commit_id` should make the
revision visible again.

See [revsets] and [templates] for further guidance.

### Can I prevent Jujutsu from recording my unfinished work? I'm not ready to commit it.

Jujutsu automatically records new files in the current working-copy commit and
doesn't provide a way to prevent that.

However, you can easily record intermediate drafts of your work. If you think
you might want to go back to the current state of the working-copy commit,
simply use `jj new`. There's no need for the commit to be "finished" or even
have a description.

Then future edits will go into a new working-copy commit on top of the now
former working-copy commit. Whenever you are happy with another set of edits,
use `jj squash` to amend the previous commit.

For more options see the next question.

### Can I add a portion of the edits I made to a file, similarly to `git add -p` or `hg commit -i`?

At the moment the best options to partially add a file are: `jj split`,
`jj amend -i` and `jj move -i`.

### Is there something like `git rebase --interactive` or `hg histedit`?

Not yet, you can check [this issue] for updates.

To reorder commits, it is for now recommended to rebase commits individually,
which may require multiple invocations of `jj rebase -r` or `jj rebase -s`.

To squash or split commits, use `jj squash` and `jj split`.

### How can I keep my scratch files in the repository?

You can keep your notes and other scratch files in the repository, if you add
a wildcard pattern to either the repo's `gitignore` or your global `gitignore`.
Something like `*.scratch` or `*.scratchpad` should do, after that rename the
files you want to keep around to match the pattern.

If `$EDITOR` integration is important, something like `scratchpad.*` may be more
helpful, as you can keep the filename extension intact (it
matches `scratchpad.md`, `scratchpad.rs` and more).

You can find more details on `gitignore` files [here][gitignore].

### How can I keep local changes around, but not use them for Pull Requests?

In general, you should separate out the changes to their own commit (using
e.g. `jj split`). After that, one possible workflow is to rebase your pending
PRs on top of the commit with the local changes. Then, just before pushing to a
remote, use `jj rebase -s child_of_commit_with_local_changes -d main` to move
the PRs back on top of `main`.

If you have several PRs, you can
try `jj rebase -s all:commit_with_local_changes+ -d main`
(note the `+`) to move them all at once.

An alternative workflow would be to rebase the commit with local changes on
top of the PR you're working on and then do `jj new commit_with_local_changes`.
You'll then need to use `jj new --before` to create new commits
and `jj move --to`
to move new changes into the correct commits.

### How do I resolve conflicts after rebasing a stack of revisions changing a file on top of a revision renaming that file?

Currently, `jj` does not understand renames (https://github.com/martinvonz/jj/issues/47) and interprets them as a deletion of one file and the creation of another file. So, rebasing on top of a revision that renames a file results in "edit-deletion" conflicts. 

At the moment, there is no perfect workaround. Generally, it helps to rebase on top of the revision *just before* the file
gets renamed first, resolve any conflicts, and finally apply one of the following workarounds to rebase it on top of the revision that moves the file.

One option to resolve the edit-deletion conflict is to `jj restore path_to_file_with_conflict ...` TODO

In a colocated repo, **another option** is to use `git rebase`, which usually does a good job of recognizing renames. This is done as follows:

```shell script
# Mark the revision we're rebasing *onto* with a branch
jj branch c target -r revision_that_moves_the_file
# Make sure the working copy is clean before using git commands
jj new
git switch branch_on_top_of_the_stack_to_rebase
git rebase target
```

In many, especially if you followed the above general advice, this should immediately succeed and you are done.

If there are any merge conflicts, make sure to only use `git` commands until the conflicts are resolved and `git status` looks clean. You can also give up at this point by using `git rebase --abort`.

[config]: ./config.md

[gitignore]: https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore

[revsets]: ./revsets.md

[templates]: ./templates.md

[this issue]: https://github.com/martinvonz/jj/issues/1531
