docs/revsets.md, before:

# Revsets

Jujutsu supports a functional language for selecting a set of revisions.
Expressions in this language are called "revsets" (the idea comes from
[Mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/repo/hg/help/revsets)). The language
consists of symbols, operators, and functions.

Most `jj` commands accept a revset (or multiple). Many commands, such as
`jj diff -r <revset>` expect the revset to resolve to a single commit; it is
an error to pass a revset that resolves to more than one commit (or zero
commits) to such commands.

The words "revisions" and "commits" are used interchangeably in this document.

Most revsets search only the [visible commits](glossary.md#visible-commits).
Other commits are only included if you explicitly mention them (e.g. by commit
ID or a Git ref pointing to them).

## Symbols

The `@` expression refers to the working copy commit in the current workspace.
Use `<workspace name>@` to refer to the working-copy commit in another
workspace. Use `<name>@<remote>` to refer to a remote-tracking branch.

A full commit ID refers to a single commit. A unique prefix of the full commit
ID can also be used. It is an error to use a non-unique prefix.

A full change ID refers to all visible commits with that change ID (there is
typically only one visible commit with a given change ID). A unique prefix of
the full change ID can also be used. It is an error to use a non-unique prefix.

Use [single or double quotes][string-literals] to prevent a symbol from being
interpreted as an expression. For example, `"x-"` is the symbol `x-`, not the
parents of symbol `x`. Taking shell quoting into account, you may need to use
something like `jj log -r '"x-"'`.

[string-literals]: templates.md#string-literals

### Priority

Jujutsu attempts to resolve a symbol in the following order:

1. Tag name
2. Branch name
3. Git ref
4. Commit ID or change ID

## Operators

The following operators are supported. `x` and `y` below can be any revset, not
only symbols.

* `x-`: Parents of `x`, can be empty.
* `x+`: Children of `x`, can be empty.
* `x::`: Descendants of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself. Shorthand for
  `x::visible_heads()`.
* `x..`: Revisions that are not ancestors of `x`. Shorthand for
  `x..visible_heads()`.
* `::x`: Ancestors of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself. Shorthand for
  `root()::x`.
* `..x`: Ancestors of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself, but excluding
  the root commit. Shorthand for `root()..x`. Equivalent to `::x ~ root()`.
* `x::y`: Descendants of `x` that are also ancestors of `y`. Equivalent
   to `x:: & ::y`. This is what `git log` calls `--ancestry-path x..y`.
* `x..y`: Ancestors of `y` that are not also ancestors of `x`. Equivalent to
  `::y ~ ::x`. This is what `git log` calls `x..y` (i.e. the same as we call it).
* `::`: All visible commits in the repo. Shorthand for
  `root()::visible_heads()`. Equivalent to `all()`.
* `..`: All visible commits in the repo, but excluding the root commit.
  Shorthand for `root()..visible_heads()`. Equivalent to `~root()`.
* `~x`: Revisions that are not in `x`.
* `x & y`: Revisions that are in both `x` and `y`.
* `x ~ y`: Revisions that are in `x` but not in `y`.
* `x | y`: Revisions that are in either `x` or `y` (or both).

(listed in order of binding strengths)

You can use parentheses to control evaluation order, such as `(x & y) | z` or
`x & (y | z)`.

??? examples

    Given this history:
    ```
    D
    |\
    | o C
    | |
    o | B
    |/
    o A
    |
    o root()
    ```

    **Operator** `x-`

    * `D-` ⇒ `{C,B}`
    * `B-` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `A-` ⇒ `{root()}`
    * `root()-` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `none()-` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(D|A)-` ⇒ `{C,B,root()}`
    * `(C|B)-` ⇒ `{A}`

    **Operator** `x+`

    * `D+` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B+` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `A+` ⇒ `{B,C}`
    * `root()+` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `none()+` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)+` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `(B|root())+` ⇒ `{D,A}`

    **Operator** `x::`

    * `D::` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `B::` ⇒ `{D,B}`
    * `A::` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `root()::` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `none()::` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)::` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`

    **Operator** `x..`

    * `D..` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B..` ⇒ `{D,C}` (note that, unlike `B::`, this includes `C`)
    * `A..` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`
    * `root()..` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `none()..` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `(C|B)..` ⇒ `{D}`

    **Operator** `::x`

    * `::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `::B` ⇒ `{B,A,root()}`
    * `::A` ⇒ `{A,root()}`
    * `::root()` ⇒ `{root()}`
    * `::none()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `::(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B,A,root()}`

    **Operator** `..x`

    * `..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `..B` ⇒ `{B,A}`
    * `..A` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `..root()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `..none()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `..(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B,A}`

    **Operator** `x::y`

    * `D::D` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `B::D` ⇒ `{D,B}` (note that, unlike `B..D`, this includes `B` and excludes `C`)
    * `A::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `root()::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `none()::D` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `D::B` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)::(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B}`

    **Operator** `x..y`

    * `D..D` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B..D` ⇒ `{D,C}` (note that, unlike `B::D`, this includes `C` and excludes `B`)
    * `A..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`
    * `root()..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `none()..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `D..B` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)..(C|B)` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)

## Functions

You can also specify revisions by using functions. Some functions take other
revsets (expressions) as arguments.

* `parents(x)`: Same as `x-`.

* `children(x)`: Same as `x+`.

* `ancestors(x[, depth])`: `ancestors(x)` is the same as `::x`.
  `ancestors(x, depth)` returns the ancestors of `x` limited to the given
  `depth`.

* `descendants(x[, depth])`: `descendants(x)` is the same as `x::`.
  `descendants(x, depth)` returns the descendants of `x` limited to the given
  `depth`.

* `reachable(srcs, domain)`: All commits reachable from `srcs` within
  `domain`, traversing all parent and child edges.

* `connected(x)`: Same as `x::x`. Useful when `x` includes several commits.

* `all()`: All visible commits in the repo.

* `none()`: No commits. This function is rarely useful; it is provided for
  completeness.

* `branches([pattern])`: All local branch targets. If `pattern` is specified,
  this selects the branches whose name match the given [string
  pattern](#string-patterns). For example, `branches(push)` would match the
  branches `push-123` and `repushed` but not the branch `main`. If a branch is
  in a conflicted state, all its possible targets are included.

* `remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`: All remote
  branch targets across all remotes. If just the `branch_pattern` is
  specified, the branches whose names match the given [string
  pattern](#string-patterns) across all remotes are selected. If both
  `branch_pattern` and `remote_pattern` are specified, the selection is
  further restricted to just the remotes whose names match `remote_pattern`.

  For example, `remote_branches(push, ri)` would match the branches
  `push-123@origin` and `repushed@private` but not `push-123@upstream` or
  `main@origin` or `main@upstream`. If a branch is in a conflicted state, all
  its possible targets are included.

  While Git-tracking branches can be selected by `<name>@git`, these branches
  aren't included in `remote_branches()`.

* `tracked_remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`: All
  targets of tracked remote branches. Supports the same optional arguments as
  `remote_branches()`.

* `untracked_remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`:
  All targets of untracked remote branches. Supports the same optional arguments
  as `remote_branches()`.

* `tags()`: All tag targets. If a tag is in a conflicted state, all its
  possible targets are included.

* `git_refs()`:  All Git ref targets as of the last import. If a Git ref
  is in a conflicted state, all its possible targets are included.

* `git_head()`: The Git `HEAD` target as of the last import. Equivalent to
  `present(HEAD@git)`.

* `visible_heads()`: All visible heads (same as `heads(all())`).

* `root()`: The virtual commit that is the oldest ancestor of all other commits.

* `heads(x)`: Commits in `x` that are not ancestors of other commits in `x`.
  Note that this is different from
  [Mercurial's](https://repo.mercurial-scm.org/hg/help/revsets) `heads(x)`
  function, which is equivalent to `x ~ x-`.

* `roots(x)`: Commits in `x` that are not descendants of other commits in `x`.
  Note that this is different from
  [Mercurial's](https://repo.mercurial-scm.org/hg/help/revsets) `roots(x)`
  function, which is equivalent to `x ~ x+`.

* `latest(x[, count])`: Latest `count` commits in `x`, based on committer
  timestamp. The default `count` is 1.

* `merges()`: Merge commits.

* `description(pattern)`: Commits that have a description matching the given
  [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `author(pattern)`: Commits with the author's name or email matching the given
  [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `mine()`: Commits where the author's email matches the email of the current
  user.

* `committer(pattern)`: Commits with the committer's  name or email matching the
given [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `author_date(pattern)`: Commits with author dates matching the specified [date
  pattern](#date-patterns).

* `committer_date(pattern)`: Commits with committer dates matching the specified
  [date pattern](#date-patterns).

* `empty()`: Commits modifying no files. This also includes `merges()` without
  user modifications and `root()`.

* `file(expression)`: Commits modifying paths matching the given [fileset
  expression](filesets.md).

  Paths are relative to the directory `jj` was invoked from. A directory name
  will match all files in that directory and its subdirectories.

  For example, `file(foo)` will match files `foo`, `foo/bar`, `foo/bar/baz`.
  It will *not* match `foobar` or `bar/foo`.

  Some file patterns might need quoting because the `expression` must also be
  parsable as a revset. For example, `.` has to be quoted in `file(".")`.

* `diff_contains(text[, files])`: Commits containing diffs matching the given
  `text` pattern line by line.

  The search paths can be narrowed by the `files` expression. All modified files
  are scanned by default, but it is likely to change in future version to
  respect the command line path arguments.

  For example, `diff_contains("TODO", "src")` will search revisions where "TODO"
  is added to or removed from files under "src".

* `conflict()`: Commits with conflicts.

* `present(x)`: Same as `x`, but evaluated to `none()` if any of the commits
  in `x` doesn't exist (e.g. is an unknown branch name.)

* `working_copies()`: The working copy commits across all the workspaces.

??? examples

    Given this history:
    ```
    E
    |
    | D
    |/|
    | o C
    | |
    o | B
    |/
    o A
    |
    o root()
    ```

    **function** `reachable()`

    * `reachable(E, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(D, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(C, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(B, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(A, A..)` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)

    **function** `connected()`

    * `connected(E|A)` ⇒ `{E,B,A}`
    * `connected(D|A)` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `connected(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

    **function** `heads()`

    * `heads(E|D)` ⇒ `{E,D}`
    * `heads(E|C)` ⇒ `{E,C}`
    * `heads(E|B)` ⇒ `{E}`
    * `heads(E|A)` ⇒ `{E}`
    * `heads(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

    **function** `roots()`

    * `roots(E|D)` ⇒ `{E,D}`
    * `roots(E|C)` ⇒ `{E,C}`
    * `roots(E|B)` ⇒ `{B}`
    * `roots(E|A)` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `roots(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

## String patterns

Functions that perform string matching support the following pattern syntax:

* `"string"`, or `string` (the quotes are optional), or `substring:"string"`:
  Matches strings that contain `string`.
* `exact:"string"`: Matches strings exactly equal to `string`.
* `glob:"pattern"`: Matches strings with Unix-style shell [wildcard
  `pattern`](https://docs.rs/glob/latest/glob/struct.Pattern.html).
* `regex:"pattern"`: Matches substrings with [regular
  expression `pattern`](https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/#syntax).

You can append `-i` after the kind to match case‐insensitively (e.g.
`glob-i:"fix*jpeg*"`).

## Date patterns

Functions that perform date matching support the following pattern syntax:

* `after:"string"`: Matches dates exactly at or after the given date.
* `before:"string"`: Matches dates before, but not including, the given date.

Date strings can be specified in several forms, including:

* 2024-02-01
* 2024-02-01T12:00:00
* 2024-02-01T12:00:00-08:00
* 2024-02-01 12:00:00
* 2 days ago
* 5 minutes ago
* yesterday
* yesterday 5pm
* yesterday 10:30
* yesterday 15:30

## Aliases

New symbols and functions can be defined in the config file, by using any
combination of the predefined symbols/functions and other aliases.

Alias functions can be overloaded by the number of parameters. However, builtin
function will be shadowed by name, and can't co-exist with aliases.

For example:

```toml
[revset-aliases]
'HEAD' = '@-'
'user()' = 'user("me@example.org")'
'user(x)' = 'author(x) | committer(x)'
```

### Built-in Aliases

The following aliases are built-in and used for certain operations. These functions
are defined as aliases in order to allow you to overwrite them as needed. 
See [revsets.toml](https://github.com/martinvonz/jj/blob/main/cli/src/config/revsets.toml)
for a comprehensive list.

* `trunk()`: Resolves to the head commit for the trunk branch of the remote
  named `origin` or `upstream`. The branches `main`, `master`, and `trunk` are
  tried. If more than one potential trunk commit exists, the newest one is
  chosen. If none of the branches exist, the revset evaluates to `root()`.

  When working with an existing Git repository (via `jj git clone` or
  `jj git init`), `trunk()` will be overridden at the repository level
  to the default branch of the remote `origin`.

  You can [override](./config.md) this as appropriate. If you do, make sure it
  always resolves to exactly one commit. For example:

  ```toml
  [revset-aliases]
  'trunk()' = 'your-branch@your-remote'
  ```

* `builtin_immutable_heads()`: Resolves to `trunk() | tags() | untracked_remote_branches()`.
   It is used as the default definition for `immutable_heads()` below. it is not
   recommended to redefined this alias. Prefer to redefine `immutable_heads()` instead.

* `immutable_heads()`: Resolves to `trunk() | tags() |
  untracked_remote_branches()` by default. It is actually defined as `builtin_immutable_heads()`,
  and can be overridden as required.
  See [here](config.md#set-of-immutable-commits) for details.

* `immutable()`: The set of commits that `jj` treats as immutable. This is
  equivalent to `::(immutable_heads() | root())`. It is not recommended to redefine
  this alias. Note that modifying this will *not* change whether a commit is immutable.
  To do that, edit `immutable_heads()`. 

* `mutable()`: The set of commits that `jj` treats as mutable. This is
  equivalent to `~immutable()`. It is not recommended to redefined this alias.
  Note that modifying this will *not* change whether a commit is immutable.
  To do that, edit `immutable_heads()`.


## The `all:` modifier

Certain commands (such as `jj rebase`) can take multiple revset arguments, and
each of these may resolve to one-or-many revisions. By default, `jj` will not
allow revsets that resolve to more than one revision &mdash; a so-called "large
revset" &mdash; and will ask you to confirm that you want to proceed by
prefixing it with the `all:` modifier.

If you set the `ui.always-allow-large-revsets` option to `true`, `jj` will
behave as though the `all:` modifier was used every time it would matter.

An `all:` modifier before a revset expression does not otherwise change its
meaning. Strictly speaking, it is not part of the revset language. The notation
is similar to the modifiers like `glob:` allowed before [string
patterms](#string-patterns).

For example, `jj rebase -r w -d xyz+` will rebase `w` on top of the child of
`xyz` as long as `xyz` has exactly one child.

If `xyz` has more than one child, the `all:` modifier is *not* specified, and
`ui.always-allow-large-revsets` is `false` (the default), `jj rebase -r w -d
xyz+` will return an error.

If `ui.always-allow-large-revsets` was `true`, the above command would act as if
`all:` was set (see the next paragraph).

With the `all:` modifier, `jj rebase -r w -d all:xyz+` will make `w` into a merge
commit if `xyz` has more than one child. The `all:` modifier confirms that the
user expected `xyz` to have more than one child.

A more useful example: if `w` is a merge commit, `jj rebase -s w -d all:w- -d
xyz` will add `xyz` to the list of `w`'s parents.

## Examples

Show the parent(s) of the working-copy commit (like `git log -1 HEAD`):

```
jj log -r @-
```

Show all ancestors of the working copy (like plain `git log`)

```
jj log -r ::@
```

Show commits not on any remote branch:

```
jj log -r 'remote_branches()..'
```

Show commits not on `origin` (if you have other remotes like `fork`):

```
jj log -r 'remote_branches(remote=origin)..'
```

Show the initial commits in the repo (the ones Git calls "root commits"):

```
jj log -r 'root()+'
```

Show some important commits (like `git --simplify-by-decoration`):

```
jj log -r 'tags() | branches()'
```

Show local commits leading up to the working copy, as well as descendants of
those commits:


```
jj log -r '(remote_branches()..@)::'
```

Show commits authored by "martinvonz" and containing the word "reset" in the
description:

```
jj log -r 'author(martinvonz) & description(reset)'
```

Commit message:

config: introduce default `at = @` revset alias
When using Windows, `@` is a bit of an annoyance to type in the terminal due
to Windows Terminal escape rules, so you actually have to write it with a
backtick in front. It's annoying to remember this and not possible to configure
a different behavior, as far as I can see.

However, there is a smart trick you can do to make this a lot easier: just alias
`@` to the name `at` and be happy. Because:

- It's short: sweet and easy to read, and requires no backticks.
- It's unambiguous: `a` is from commit alphabet, but `t` is from the change alphabet
- It can be typed without a huge loss in efficiency (and one hand, assuming QWERTY).

I believe it was Stephen Jennings who came up with this trick first in Discord,
and I have it in my aliases, but I run into it every time I try to use JJ on a
fresh Windows VM to test stuff. Let's make life a little easier for everyone and
just ship this by default.

Signed-off-by: Austin Seipp <aseipp@pobox.com>

docs/revsets.md, after:

# Revsets

Jujutsu supports a functional language for selecting a set of revisions.
Expressions in this language are called "revsets" (the idea comes from
[Mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/repo/hg/help/revsets)). The language
consists of symbols, operators, and functions.

Most `jj` commands accept a revset (or multiple). Many commands, such as
`jj diff -r <revset>` expect the revset to resolve to a single commit; it is
an error to pass a revset that resolves to more than one commit (or zero
commits) to such commands.

The words "revisions" and "commits" are used interchangeably in this document.

Most revsets search only the [visible commits](glossary.md#visible-commits).
Other commits are only included if you explicitly mention them (e.g. by commit
ID or a Git ref pointing to them).

## Symbols

The `@` expression refers to the working copy commit in the current workspace.
In places where the `@` symbol needs to be escaped, such as inside a Windows
terminal, you may use the name `at` instead, which is identical to `@` and
requires no quoting.

Use `<workspace name>@` to refer to the working-copy commit in another
workspace. Use `<name>@<remote>` to refer to a remote-tracking branch.

A full commit ID refers to a single commit. A unique prefix of the full commit
ID can also be used. It is an error to use a non-unique prefix.

A full change ID refers to all visible commits with that change ID (there is
typically only one visible commit with a given change ID). A unique prefix of
the full change ID can also be used. It is an error to use a non-unique prefix.

Use [single or double quotes][string-literals] to prevent a symbol from being
interpreted as an expression. For example, `"x-"` is the symbol `x-`, not the
parents of symbol `x`. Taking shell quoting into account, you may need to use
something like `jj log -r '"x-"'`.

[string-literals]: templates.md#string-literals

### Priority

Jujutsu attempts to resolve a symbol in the following order:

1. Tag name
2. Branch name
3. Git ref
4. Commit ID or change ID

## Operators

The following operators are supported. `x` and `y` below can be any revset, not
only symbols.

* `x-`: Parents of `x`, can be empty.
* `x+`: Children of `x`, can be empty.
* `x::`: Descendants of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself. Shorthand for
  `x::visible_heads()`.
* `x..`: Revisions that are not ancestors of `x`. Shorthand for
  `x..visible_heads()`.
* `::x`: Ancestors of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself. Shorthand for
  `root()::x`.
* `..x`: Ancestors of `x`, including the commits in `x` itself, but excluding
  the root commit. Shorthand for `root()..x`. Equivalent to `::x ~ root()`.
* `x::y`: Descendants of `x` that are also ancestors of `y`. Equivalent
   to `x:: & ::y`. This is what `git log` calls `--ancestry-path x..y`.
* `x..y`: Ancestors of `y` that are not also ancestors of `x`. Equivalent to
  `::y ~ ::x`. This is what `git log` calls `x..y` (i.e. the same as we call it).
* `::`: All visible commits in the repo. Shorthand for
  `root()::visible_heads()`. Equivalent to `all()`.
* `..`: All visible commits in the repo, but excluding the root commit.
  Shorthand for `root()..visible_heads()`. Equivalent to `~root()`.
* `~x`: Revisions that are not in `x`.
* `x & y`: Revisions that are in both `x` and `y`.
* `x ~ y`: Revisions that are in `x` but not in `y`.
* `x | y`: Revisions that are in either `x` or `y` (or both).

(listed in order of binding strengths)

You can use parentheses to control evaluation order, such as `(x & y) | z` or
`x & (y | z)`.

??? examples

    Given this history:
    ```
    D
    |\
    | o C
    | |
    o | B
    |/
    o A
    |
    o root()
    ```

    **Operator** `x-`

    * `D-` ⇒ `{C,B}`
    * `B-` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `A-` ⇒ `{root()}`
    * `root()-` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `none()-` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(D|A)-` ⇒ `{C,B,root()}`
    * `(C|B)-` ⇒ `{A}`

    **Operator** `x+`

    * `D+` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B+` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `A+` ⇒ `{B,C}`
    * `root()+` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `none()+` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)+` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `(B|root())+` ⇒ `{D,A}`

    **Operator** `x::`

    * `D::` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `B::` ⇒ `{D,B}`
    * `A::` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `root()::` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `none()::` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)::` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`

    **Operator** `x..`

    * `D..` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B..` ⇒ `{D,C}` (note that, unlike `B::`, this includes `C`)
    * `A..` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`
    * `root()..` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `none()..` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `(C|B)..` ⇒ `{D}`

    **Operator** `::x`

    * `::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `::B` ⇒ `{B,A,root()}`
    * `::A` ⇒ `{A,root()}`
    * `::root()` ⇒ `{root()}`
    * `::none()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `::(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B,A,root()}`

    **Operator** `..x`

    * `..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `..B` ⇒ `{B,A}`
    * `..A` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `..root()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `..none()` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `..(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B,A}`

    **Operator** `x::y`

    * `D::D` ⇒ `{D}`
    * `B::D` ⇒ `{D,B}` (note that, unlike `B..D`, this includes `B` and excludes `C`)
    * `A::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `root()::D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `none()::D` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `D::B` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)::(C|B)` ⇒ `{C,B}`

    **Operator** `x..y`

    * `D..D` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `B..D` ⇒ `{D,C}` (note that, unlike `B::D`, this includes `C` and excludes `B`)
    * `A..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B}`
    * `root()..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `none()..D` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A,root()}`
    * `D..B` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)
    * `(C|B)..(C|B)` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)

## Functions

You can also specify revisions by using functions. Some functions take other
revsets (expressions) as arguments.

* `parents(x)`: Same as `x-`.

* `children(x)`: Same as `x+`.

* `ancestors(x[, depth])`: `ancestors(x)` is the same as `::x`.
  `ancestors(x, depth)` returns the ancestors of `x` limited to the given
  `depth`.

* `descendants(x[, depth])`: `descendants(x)` is the same as `x::`.
  `descendants(x, depth)` returns the descendants of `x` limited to the given
  `depth`.

* `reachable(srcs, domain)`: All commits reachable from `srcs` within
  `domain`, traversing all parent and child edges.

* `connected(x)`: Same as `x::x`. Useful when `x` includes several commits.

* `all()`: All visible commits in the repo.

* `none()`: No commits. This function is rarely useful; it is provided for
  completeness.

* `branches([pattern])`: All local branch targets. If `pattern` is specified,
  this selects the branches whose name match the given [string
  pattern](#string-patterns). For example, `branches(push)` would match the
  branches `push-123` and `repushed` but not the branch `main`. If a branch is
  in a conflicted state, all its possible targets are included.

* `remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`: All remote
  branch targets across all remotes. If just the `branch_pattern` is
  specified, the branches whose names match the given [string
  pattern](#string-patterns) across all remotes are selected. If both
  `branch_pattern` and `remote_pattern` are specified, the selection is
  further restricted to just the remotes whose names match `remote_pattern`.

  For example, `remote_branches(push, ri)` would match the branches
  `push-123@origin` and `repushed@private` but not `push-123@upstream` or
  `main@origin` or `main@upstream`. If a branch is in a conflicted state, all
  its possible targets are included.

  While Git-tracking branches can be selected by `<name>@git`, these branches
  aren't included in `remote_branches()`.

* `tracked_remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`: All
  targets of tracked remote branches. Supports the same optional arguments as
  `remote_branches()`.

* `untracked_remote_branches([branch_pattern[, [remote=]remote_pattern]])`:
  All targets of untracked remote branches. Supports the same optional arguments
  as `remote_branches()`.

* `tags()`: All tag targets. If a tag is in a conflicted state, all its
  possible targets are included.

* `git_refs()`:  All Git ref targets as of the last import. If a Git ref
  is in a conflicted state, all its possible targets are included.

* `git_head()`: The Git `HEAD` target as of the last import. Equivalent to
  `present(HEAD@git)`.

* `visible_heads()`: All visible heads (same as `heads(all())`).

* `root()`: The virtual commit that is the oldest ancestor of all other commits.

* `heads(x)`: Commits in `x` that are not ancestors of other commits in `x`.
  Note that this is different from
  [Mercurial's](https://repo.mercurial-scm.org/hg/help/revsets) `heads(x)`
  function, which is equivalent to `x ~ x-`.

* `roots(x)`: Commits in `x` that are not descendants of other commits in `x`.
  Note that this is different from
  [Mercurial's](https://repo.mercurial-scm.org/hg/help/revsets) `roots(x)`
  function, which is equivalent to `x ~ x+`.

* `latest(x[, count])`: Latest `count` commits in `x`, based on committer
  timestamp. The default `count` is 1.

* `merges()`: Merge commits.

* `description(pattern)`: Commits that have a description matching the given
  [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `author(pattern)`: Commits with the author's name or email matching the given
  [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `mine()`: Commits where the author's email matches the email of the current
  user.

* `committer(pattern)`: Commits with the committer's  name or email matching the
given [string pattern](#string-patterns).

* `author_date(pattern)`: Commits with author dates matching the specified [date
  pattern](#date-patterns).

* `committer_date(pattern)`: Commits with committer dates matching the specified
  [date pattern](#date-patterns).

* `empty()`: Commits modifying no files. This also includes `merges()` without
  user modifications and `root()`.

* `file(expression)`: Commits modifying paths matching the given [fileset
  expression](filesets.md).

  Paths are relative to the directory `jj` was invoked from. A directory name
  will match all files in that directory and its subdirectories.

  For example, `file(foo)` will match files `foo`, `foo/bar`, `foo/bar/baz`.
  It will *not* match `foobar` or `bar/foo`.

  Some file patterns might need quoting because the `expression` must also be
  parsable as a revset. For example, `.` has to be quoted in `file(".")`.

* `diff_contains(text[, files])`: Commits containing diffs matching the given
  `text` pattern line by line.

  The search paths can be narrowed by the `files` expression. All modified files
  are scanned by default, but it is likely to change in future version to
  respect the command line path arguments.

  For example, `diff_contains("TODO", "src")` will search revisions where "TODO"
  is added to or removed from files under "src".

* `conflict()`: Commits with conflicts.

* `present(x)`: Same as `x`, but evaluated to `none()` if any of the commits
  in `x` doesn't exist (e.g. is an unknown branch name.)

* `working_copies()`: The working copy commits across all the workspaces.

??? examples

    Given this history:
    ```
    E
    |
    | D
    |/|
    | o C
    | |
    o | B
    |/
    o A
    |
    o root()
    ```

    **function** `reachable()`

    * `reachable(E, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(D, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(C, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(B, A..)` ⇒ `{E,D,C,B}`
    * `reachable(A, A..)` ⇒ `{}` (empty set)

    **function** `connected()`

    * `connected(E|A)` ⇒ `{E,B,A}`
    * `connected(D|A)` ⇒ `{D,C,B,A}`
    * `connected(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

    **function** `heads()`

    * `heads(E|D)` ⇒ `{E,D}`
    * `heads(E|C)` ⇒ `{E,C}`
    * `heads(E|B)` ⇒ `{E}`
    * `heads(E|A)` ⇒ `{E}`
    * `heads(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

    **function** `roots()`

    * `roots(E|D)` ⇒ `{E,D}`
    * `roots(E|C)` ⇒ `{E,C}`
    * `roots(E|B)` ⇒ `{B}`
    * `roots(E|A)` ⇒ `{A}`
    * `roots(A)` ⇒ `{A}`

## String patterns

Functions that perform string matching support the following pattern syntax:

* `"string"`, or `string` (the quotes are optional), or `substring:"string"`:
  Matches strings that contain `string`.
* `exact:"string"`: Matches strings exactly equal to `string`.
* `glob:"pattern"`: Matches strings with Unix-style shell [wildcard
  `pattern`](https://docs.rs/glob/latest/glob/struct.Pattern.html).
* `regex:"pattern"`: Matches substrings with [regular
  expression `pattern`](https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/#syntax).

You can append `-i` after the kind to match case‐insensitively (e.g.
`glob-i:"fix*jpeg*"`).

## Date patterns

Functions that perform date matching support the following pattern syntax:

* `after:"string"`: Matches dates exactly at or after the given date.
* `before:"string"`: Matches dates before, but not including, the given date.

Date strings can be specified in several forms, including:

* 2024-02-01
* 2024-02-01T12:00:00
* 2024-02-01T12:00:00-08:00
* 2024-02-01 12:00:00
* 2 days ago
* 5 minutes ago
* yesterday
* yesterday 5pm
* yesterday 10:30
* yesterday 15:30

## Aliases

New symbols and functions can be defined in the config file, by using any
combination of the predefined symbols/functions and other aliases.

Alias functions can be overloaded by the number of parameters. However, builtin
function will be shadowed by name, and can't co-exist with aliases.

For example:

```toml
[revset-aliases]
'HEAD' = '@-'
'user()' = 'user("me@example.org")'
'user(x)' = 'author(x) | committer(x)'
```

### Built-in Aliases

The following aliases are built-in and used for certain operations. These functions
are defined as aliases in order to allow you to overwrite them as needed. 
See [revsets.toml](https://github.com/martinvonz/jj/blob/main/cli/src/config/revsets.toml)
for a comprehensive list.

* `trunk()`: Resolves to the head commit for the trunk branch of the remote
  named `origin` or `upstream`. The branches `main`, `master`, and `trunk` are
  tried. If more than one potential trunk commit exists, the newest one is
  chosen. If none of the branches exist, the revset evaluates to `root()`.

  When working with an existing Git repository (via `jj git clone` or
  `jj git init`), `trunk()` will be overridden at the repository level
  to the default branch of the remote `origin`.

  You can [override](./config.md) this as appropriate. If you do, make sure it
  always resolves to exactly one commit. For example:

  ```toml
  [revset-aliases]
  'trunk()' = 'your-branch@your-remote'
  ```

* `builtin_immutable_heads()`: Resolves to `trunk() | tags() | untracked_remote_branches()`.
   It is used as the default definition for `immutable_heads()` below. it is not
   recommended to redefined this alias. Prefer to redefine `immutable_heads()` instead.

* `immutable_heads()`: Resolves to `trunk() | tags() |
  untracked_remote_branches()` by default. It is actually defined as `builtin_immutable_heads()`,
  and can be overridden as required.
  See [here](config.md#set-of-immutable-commits) for details.

* `immutable()`: The set of commits that `jj` treats as immutable. This is
  equivalent to `::(immutable_heads() | root())`. It is not recommended to redefine
  this alias. Note that modifying this will *not* change whether a commit is immutable.
  To do that, edit `immutable_heads()`. 

* `mutable()`: The set of commits that `jj` treats as mutable. This is
  equivalent to `~immutable()`. It is not recommended to redefined this alias.
  Note that modifying this will *not* change whether a commit is immutable.
  To do that, edit `immutable_heads()`.


## The `all:` modifier

Certain commands (such as `jj rebase`) can take multiple revset arguments, and
each of these may resolve to one-or-many revisions. By default, `jj` will not
allow revsets that resolve to more than one revision &mdash; a so-called "large
revset" &mdash; and will ask you to confirm that you want to proceed by
prefixing it with the `all:` modifier.

If you set the `ui.always-allow-large-revsets` option to `true`, `jj` will
behave as though the `all:` modifier was used every time it would matter.

An `all:` modifier before a revset expression does not otherwise change its
meaning. Strictly speaking, it is not part of the revset language. The notation
is similar to the modifiers like `glob:` allowed before [string
patterms](#string-patterns).

For example, `jj rebase -r w -d xyz+` will rebase `w` on top of the child of
`xyz` as long as `xyz` has exactly one child.

If `xyz` has more than one child, the `all:` modifier is *not* specified, and
`ui.always-allow-large-revsets` is `false` (the default), `jj rebase -r w -d
xyz+` will return an error.

If `ui.always-allow-large-revsets` was `true`, the above command would act as if
`all:` was set (see the next paragraph).

With the `all:` modifier, `jj rebase -r w -d all:xyz+` will make `w` into a merge
commit if `xyz` has more than one child. The `all:` modifier confirms that the
user expected `xyz` to have more than one child.

A more useful example: if `w` is a merge commit, `jj rebase -s w -d all:w- -d
xyz` will add `xyz` to the list of `w`'s parents.

## Examples

Show the parent(s) of the working-copy commit (like `git log -1 HEAD`):

```
jj log -r @-
```

Show all ancestors of the working copy (like plain `git log`)

```
jj log -r ::@
```

Show commits not on any remote branch:

```
jj log -r 'remote_branches()..'
```

Show commits not on `origin` (if you have other remotes like `fork`):

```
jj log -r 'remote_branches(remote=origin)..'
```

Show the initial commits in the repo (the ones Git calls "root commits"):

```
jj log -r 'root()+'
```

Show some important commits (like `git --simplify-by-decoration`):

```
jj log -r 'tags() | branches()'
```

Show local commits leading up to the working copy, as well as descendants of
those commits:


```
jj log -r '(remote_branches()..@)::'
```

Show commits authored by "martinvonz" and containing the word "reset" in the
description:

```
jj log -r 'author(martinvonz) & description(reset)'
```
